= RubyTSK

== Description

This is a simple ruby module to provide access to the The SleuthKit digital forensics libraries.
The library offers methods to safely examine disk images, volume systems, partitions, file systems and their
contents.

== Examples

require 'sleuthkit'

# open a disk
 tskimage = Sleuthkit::Image.new('path/to/disk.image')
 tskimage.inspect_object

# open a split disk image
 tskimage = Sleuthkit::Image.new( [ 'chunk.0', 'chunk.1', 'chunk.2' ] )

# open a volume within a disk

 tskvolume = Sleuthkit::Volume.new(tskimage)
 => #<Sleuthkit::VolumeSystem:0x104f051b8>

# display specific volume system information
 tskvolume.partition_count
 => 6 

#grab a partition
 tskvolume.volume.partition[0]
 => #<Sleuthkit::VolumePart:0x1094d3618> 


== Installation

Install (RVM https://rvm.io is recommended for managing gems):

to load ruby dependencies: 'bundle'

rake build     (prepares the gem for installation from sleuthkit.gemspec)
rake compile   (compiles the gem in the 'pkg' directory; handy for running tests)
rake install   (puts the gem in your local gem repository)

== Dependencies

Requirements: The SleuthKit C library (install with your favorite package manager)
Version >= 3.2

see http://www.sleuthkit.org for details.

== License

Created by Matthew H. Stephens.

Copyright 2011, 2012 Matthew H. Stephens.  All rights reserved. 

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at
 
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.


== TESTING

RubyTSK is built using the RSpec testing DSL, available via the Rake build tool.

 rake spec
OR
 rake -T spec:suite  # displays suites of test that can be run independently

Compressed test images are found in the 'samples' directory, to unpack:

 rake spec:samples:uncompress[file]  # Uncompress sample disk images (default = all images in 'samples')
 rake spec:samples:split             # splits a sample for use in tests

